You see me draw a few
pictures of neural networks.
In this video, we'll talk about
exactly what those pictures means.
In other words,
exactly what those neural networks
that we've been drawing represent.
And we'll start with focusing on
the case of neural networks with
what was called a single hidden layer.
Here's a picture of a neural network.
Let's give different parts of
these pictures some names.
We have the input features, x1,
x2, x3 stacked up vertically.
And this is called the input
layer of the neural network.
So maybe not surprisingly, this contains
the inputs to the neural network.
Then there's another layer of circles.
And this is called a hidden
layer of the neural network.
I'll come back in a second to
say what the word hidden means.
But the final layer here is formed by,
in this case, just one node.
And this single-node layer is called
the output layer, and is responsible for
generating the predicted value y hat.
In a neural network that
you train with supervised learning,
the training set contains values of the
inputs x as well as the target outputs y.
So the term hidden layer refers to
the fact that in the training set,
the true values for
these nodes in the middle are not observed.
That is, you don't see what they
should be in the training set.
You see what the inputs are.
You see what the output should be.
But the things in the hidden layer
are not seen in the training set.
So that kind of explains the name
hidden layer; just because you
don't see it in the training set.
Let's introduce a bit more notation.
Whereas previously, we were using the
vector X to denote the input features and
alternative notation for
the values of the input features will
be A superscript square bracket 0.
And the term A also stands for
activations, and
it refers to the values
that different layers
of the neural network are passing
on to the subsequent layers.
So the input layer passes on
the value x to the hidden layer, so
we're going to call that activations
of the input layer A super script 0.
The next layer, the hidden layer, will
in turn generate some set of activations,
which I'm going to write as
A superscript square bracket 1.
So in particular,
this first unit or this first node,
we generate a value A superscript
square bracket 1 subscript 1.
This second node we generate a value.
Now we have a subscript 2 and so on.
And so, A superscript square bracket 1,
this is a four dimensional vector
you want in Python
because the 4x1 matrix, or
a 4 column vector, which looks like this.
And it's four dimensional, because
in this case we have four nodes, or
four units, or
four hidden units in this hidden layer.
And then finally,
the open layer regenerates some value A2,
which is just a real number.
And so
y hat is going to take on the value of A2.
So this is analogous to how in
logistic regression we have y hat equals a and
in logistic regression which we
only had that one output layer, so
we don't use the superscript
square brackets.
But with our neural network,
we now going to use the superscript square
bracket to explicitly indicate
which layer it came from.
One funny thing about notational
conventions in neural networks
is that this network that you've seen here
is called a two layer neural network.
And the reason is that when we
count layers in neural networks,
we don't count the input layer.
So the hidden layer is layer one and
the output layer is layer two.
In our notational convention, we're
calling the input layer layer zero, so
technically maybe there are three
layers in this neural network.
Because there's the input layer,
the hidden layer, and the output layer.
But in conventional usage, if you
read research papers and elsewhere in
the course, you see people refer to this
particular neural network as a two layer
neural network, because we don't count
the input layer as an official layer.
Finally, something that we'll get to
later is that the hidden layer and
the output layers will have
parameters associated with them.
So the hidden layer will have
associated with it parameters w and b.
And I'm going to write superscripts
square bracket 1 to indicate that these
are parameters associated with
layer one with the hidden layer.
We'll see later that w will
be a 4 by 3 matrix and
b will be a 4 by 1 vector in this example.
Where the first coordinate four
comes from the fact that we have
four nodes of our hidden units and
a layer, and
three comes from the fact that
we have three input features.
We'll talk later about
the dimensions of these matrices.
And it might make more sense at that time.
But in some of the output layers has
associated with it also, parameters w
superscript square bracket 2 and
b superscript square bracket 2.
And it turns out the dimensions
of these are 1 by 4 and 1 by 1.
And these 1 by 4 is because the hidden
layer has four hidden units,
the output layer has just one unit.
But we will go over the dimension of these
matrices and vectors in a later video.
So you've just seen what a two
layered neural network looks like.
That is a neural network
with one hidden layer.
In the next video,
let's go deeper into exactly what
this neural network is computing.
That is how this neural
network inputs x and
goes all the way to
computing its output y hat.